---
id: V-71945
status: opt-in - Red Hat Only
tag: auth
---

The STIG requires that accounts with excessive failed login attempts are
locked. It sets a limit of three failed attempts in a 15 minute interval and
these restrictions are applied to all users (including root). Accounts cannot
be automatically unlocked for seven days.

This change might cause disruptions in production environments without proper
communication to users. Therefore, this change is not applied by default.

Deployers can opt in for the change by setting the following variable:

.. code-block:: yaml

    security_pam_faillock_enable: yes

There are also three configuration options that can be adjusted by setting
Ansible variables:

* ``security_pam_faillock_attempts``: This many failed login attempts within
  the specified time interval with trigger the account to lock.
  (STIG requirement: ``3`` attempts)

* ``security_pam_faillock_interval``: This is the time interval (in seconds)
  to use when measuring excessive failed login attempts.
  (STIG requirement: ``900`` seconds)

* ``security_pam_faillock_deny_root``: Set to ``yes`` to apply the restriction
  to the root user or set to ``no`` to exempt the root user from the account
  locking restrictions.
  (STIG requirement: ``yes``)

* ``security_pam_faillock_unlock_time``: This sets the time delay (in seconds)
  before a locked account is automatically unlocked.
  (STIG requirement: ``604800`` seconds)

.. note::

    Ubuntu does not provide ``pam_faillock``. This change is only applied to
    CentOS 7 or Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 systems.
